input/pagecontent/sushi.md, before:

SUSHI ("SUSHI Unshortens ShortHand Inputs") is a reference implementation of an interpreter/compiler for the FHIR Shorthand ("FSH" or "Shorthand") language. SUSHI produces [Health Level Seven (HL7®) Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR®)](https://www.hl7.org/fhir/overview.html) profiles, extensions, and other artifacts needed to create FHIR Implementation Guides (IG).

> **Note:** HL7® and FHIR® are registered trademarks owned by Health Level Seven International, and are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office.

#### Purpose

This reference manual is a comprehensive guide to the command line interface, auxiliary files, and configurations needed to create an HL7 FHIR IG using SUSHI.

#### Intended Audience

The reference manual is targeted to people doing IG development using FSH. Familiarity with FHIR is helpful as the manual references various FHIR concepts (profiles, extensions, value sets, etc.)

#### Prerequisite

This guide assumes you have:

* Created FSH files representing your profiles and other IG artifacts (see [FHIR Shorthand Reference Manual](index.html) for details).
* Reviewed the [FHIR Shorthand Tutorial](tutorial.html).

#### Document Conventions

| Style | Explanation | Example |
|:----------|:------|:---------|
| `Code` | Code fragments, such as commands and Shorthand statements  | `* status = #open` |
| _italics_ | File names | _example-1.fsh_ |
| {curly braces} | An item to be substituted | `* status = {code}` |
| **bold** | General emphasis |  Do **not** fold, spindle or mutilate. |



| Symbol | Explanation |
|:----------|:------|
| 🚧 | Under construction; full functionality not yet available |
| 🚫 | Indicates a planned feature, not yet implemented |
| 🍎 | Indicates information or command specific to OS X. The instructions assume the shell script is **bash**. As of the Mac Catalina release, the default is **zsh** and will need to be reconfigured as a default or at runtime to call bash shell. You can find out the default shell in a Mac terminal by running `echo $SHELL`.|
| 💻 | Indicates information or command specific to Windows. A command window can be launched by typing `cmd` at the _Search Windows_ tool. |
| $ | Represents command prompt (may vary depending on platform) |
{: .grid }


### Installation
#### Step 1: Install Node.js
SUSHI requires Node.js. To install Node.js, go to [https://nodejs.org/](https://nodejs.org/) and you should see links to download an installer for your operating system. Download the installer for the LTS version. If you do not see a download appropriate for your operating system, click the "other downloads" link and look there. Once the installer is downloaded, run the installer. It is fine to select default options during installation.

Ensure that Node.js is correctly installed by opening a command window and typing the following two commands. Each command should return a version number.
```
$ node --version
$ npm --version
```

#### Step 2: Install SUSHI

To install SUSHI, open up a command prompt.

`$ npm install -g fsh-sushi`

Check the installation by typing the following command:

`$ sushi -h`

If the command outputs instructions on using SUSHI command line interface (CLI), you're ready to run SUSHI.

🚧 Use `$ sushi -v` to display version of SUSHI

SUSHI follows the [semantic versioning](https://semver.org) convention (MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH):

* MAJOR: A major release has significant new functionality and potentially, grammar changes or other non-backward-compatible changes.
* MINOR: Contains new or modified features, while maintaining backwards compatibility within the major version.
* PATCH: Contains minor updates and bug fixes, while maintaining backwards compatibility within the major version.


### Executing SUSHI from Command Line

The general form of the SUSHI execution command is as follows:

`$ sushi {specification-directory} {options}`

where options include:

```
-o, --out <out>          the path to the output folder (default: /out)
-h, --help               output usage information
```

The options are not order-sensitive.

If you run SUSHI from the same folder where your .fsh files are located, the command can be shortened to:

`$ sushi . {options}`


#### Error Messages

In the process of developing your IG using FSH, you will inevitably encounter SUSHI error messages. Debugging the model is an iterative process, and it could take some time to arrive at a clean compile. If possible, SUSHI will produce StructureDefinitions even if there are compile errors, but those SDs will omit any problematic rules.

Here are some general tips on approaching debugging your model:

* Eliminate parsing (syntax) errors first.
* Most error messages include a file name and line number. This should pinpoint the source of the error.
* Don't be discouraged by the number of errors, since a single correction can silence multiple errors.
* SUSHI should always exit gracefully, but there is a possibility for the SUSHI process to crash if there is an unanticipated error. Usually this is not a cause for concern, and fixing errors reported prior to the abnormal exit might result in a successful run. If not, please report the issue using the SUSHI issue tracker.

### Creating the IG

#### Setting Up

When SUSHI runs, in addition to creating the StructureDefintions, examples, and other artifacts, it has the capability to create additional files necessary to run the HL7 IG Publisher. This functionality will be executed only if SUSHI finds a directory named _/ig-data_ in the FSH tank.

🚧 The support provided by SUSHI for customizing the IG is limited. More features will be added in the future. To customize your IG, see [Customizing your IG](#customizing-your-ig).

To begin, follow these steps:

1. Create a _package.json_ file appropriate to your IG. The format and content of this file is [disussed here](https://confluence.hl7.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=35718629#NPMPackageSpecification-Packagemanifest). Put the _package.json_ at the top level of your FSH tank (the folder with your _.fsh_ files).
1. In your FSH Tank, create an _/ig-data_ subdirectory
1. In the _/ig-data_ directory, create a _/pagecontent_ subdirectory.
1. Create an index.md (markdown format) file containing the content for the home page of your IG, and put the file in the _/ig-data/pagecontent_ directory.

After completing these steps, re-run SUSHI. SUSHI will create and populate a _/build_ directory (or a directory name of your choice, with the `-o` flag) with all the files necessary to run the IG Publisher.

#### Downloading and Running the IG Publisher

At the command prompt, enter:

💻   `$ _updatePublisher`

🍎   `$ sh _updatePublisher.sh`

This will download the latest version of the HL7 FHIR IG Publisher tool. **This step can be skipped if you already have the latest version of the IG Publisher tool.**

> **Note:** If you are blocked by a firewall, or if for any reason __updatePublisher_ fails to execute, download the current IG Publisher jar file [here](https://fhir.github.io/latest-ig-publisher/org.hl7.fhir.publisher.jar). When the file has downloaded, move it into the directory _/build/input-cache_ (create this directory if necessary.)

Now run:

💻   `$ _genonce`

🍎   `$ sh _genonce.sh`


This will run the HL7 IG Publisher, which will take several minutes to complete. After the publisher is finished, open the file _/build/output/index.html_ to see the resulting IG.

#### Customizing your IG

🚧 The procedures here are a temporary workarounds, until SUSHI provides support for customizations.

Take the following steps to further customize your IG: 

1. Make sure you have run SUSHI at least once and successfully produced the IG at least once, so you are sure the _/build_ directory exists, and contains the directories and files needed to run the IG Publisher. 
1. Make sure all the files in _/ig-data/pagecontent_ have been copied to _/build/input/pagecontent_. If not, manually copy them over.
1. Remove the _/ig-data_ directory from the FSH Tank (you may delete it, but it is safer to preserve it at another location.)
1. Introduce any desired customizations into the following files:
    * **Menus:** Edit _/build/input/include/menu.xml_
    * **List of pages and artifacts to be included in the IG:** Edit _/build/input/ImplementationGuide-{name}.json_. See [ImplementationGuide resource](https://www.hl7.org/fhir/implementationguide.html) for details.
    * **Additional pages, images, other content:** Add files to _/build/input/resources_ directory, and link to menus or other pages.
    * **Version history:** _/build/package-list.json_

When you run SUSHI again, and it does not find the _/ig-data_ directory, it will only populate the _/build/input/resources_ directory, leaving your customizations intact. 

> **Note:** After you introduce customizations, do **not** re-create the _/ig-data_ directory in the FSH tank, or SUSHI may overwrite the customizations you have introduced in _/build/input_.

Commit message:

Added warning about known SUSHI limitations

input/pagecontent/sushi.md, after:

SUSHI ("SUSHI Unshortens ShortHand Inputs") is a reference implementation of an interpreter/compiler for the FHIR Shorthand ("FSH" or "Shorthand") language. SUSHI produces [Health Level Seven (HL7®) Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources (FHIR®)](https://www.hl7.org/fhir/overview.html) profiles, extensions, and other artifacts needed to create FHIR Implementation Guides (IG).

> **Note:** HL7® and FHIR® are registered trademarks owned by Health Level Seven International, and are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office.

#### Purpose

This reference manual is a comprehensive guide to the command line interface, auxiliary files, and configurations needed to create an HL7 FHIR IG using SUSHI.

#### Intended Audience

The reference manual is targeted to people doing IG development using FSH. Familiarity with FHIR is helpful as the manual references various FHIR concepts (profiles, extensions, value sets, etc.)

#### Prerequisite

This guide assumes you have:

* Created FSH files representing your profiles and other IG artifacts (see [FHIR Shorthand Reference Manual](index.html) for details).
* Reviewed the [FHIR Shorthand Tutorial](tutorial.html).

#### Document Conventions

| Style | Explanation | Example |
|:----------|:------|:---------|
| `Code` | Code fragments, such as commands and Shorthand statements  | `* status = #open` |
| _italics_ | File names | _example-1.fsh_ |
| {curly braces} | An item to be substituted | `* status = {code}` |
| **bold** | General emphasis |  Do **not** fold, spindle or mutilate. |



| Symbol | Explanation |
|:----------|:------|
| 🚧 | Under construction; full functionality not yet available |
| 🚫 | Indicates a planned feature, not yet implemented |
| 🍎 | Indicates information or command specific to OS X. The instructions assume the shell script is **bash**. As of the Mac Catalina release, the default is **zsh** and will need to be reconfigured as a default or at runtime to call bash shell. You can find out the default shell in a Mac terminal by running `echo $SHELL`.|
| 💻 | Indicates information or command specific to Windows. A command window can be launched by typing `cmd` at the _Search Windows_ tool. |
| $ | Represents command prompt (may vary depending on platform) |
{: .grid }


### Installation
#### Step 1: Install Node.js
SUSHI requires Node.js. To install Node.js, go to [https://nodejs.org/](https://nodejs.org/) and you should see links to download an installer for your operating system. Download the installer for the LTS version. If you do not see a download appropriate for your operating system, click the "other downloads" link and look there. Once the installer is downloaded, run the installer. It is fine to select default options during installation.

Ensure that Node.js is correctly installed by opening a command window and typing the following two commands. Each command should return a version number.
```
$ node --version
$ npm --version
```

#### Step 2: Install SUSHI

To install SUSHI, open up a command prompt.

`$ npm install -g fsh-sushi`

Check the installation by typing the following command:

`$ sushi -h`

If the command outputs instructions on using SUSHI command line interface (CLI), you're ready to run SUSHI.

🚧 Use `$ sushi -v` to display version of SUSHI

SUSHI follows the [semantic versioning](https://semver.org) convention (MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH):

* MAJOR: A major release has significant new functionality and potentially, grammar changes or other non-backward-compatible changes.
* MINOR: Contains new or modified features, while maintaining backwards compatibility within the major version.
* PATCH: Contains minor updates and bug fixes, while maintaining backwards compatibility within the major version.


### Executing SUSHI from Command Line

The general form of the SUSHI execution command is as follows:

`$ sushi {specification-directory} {options}`

where options include:

```
-o, --out <out>          the path to the output folder (default: /out)
-h, --help               output usage information
```

The options are not order-sensitive.

If you run SUSHI from the same folder where your .fsh files are located, the command can be shortened to:

`$ sushi . {options}`

#### Error Messages

In the process of developing your IG using FSH, you will inevitably encounter SUSHI error messages. Debugging the model is an iterative process, and it could take some time to arrive at a clean compile. If possible, SUSHI will produce StructureDefinitions even if there are compile errors, but those SDs will omit any problematic rules.

Here are some general tips on approaching debugging your model:

* Eliminate parsing (syntax) errors first.
* Most error messages include a file name and line number. This should pinpoint the source of the error.
* Don't be discouraged by the number of errors, since a single correction can silence multiple errors.
* SUSHI should always exit gracefully, but there is a possibility for the SUSHI process to crash if there is an unanticipated error. Usually this is not a cause for concern, and fixing errors reported prior to the abnormal exit might result in a successful run. If not, please report the issue using the SUSHI issue tracker.

### Creating the IG

#### Setting Up

When SUSHI runs, in addition to creating the StructureDefintions, examples, and other artifacts, it has the capability to create additional files necessary to run the HL7 IG Publisher. This functionality will be executed only if SUSHI finds a directory named _/ig-data_ in the FSH tank.

🚧 Currently, SUSHI provides limited support for customizing your IG. Additional features are planned. To customize your IG, see [Customizing your IG](#customizing-your-ig).

To begin, follow these steps:

1. Create a _package.json_ file appropriate to your IG. The format and content of this file is [disussed here](https://confluence.hl7.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=35718629#NPMPackageSpecification-Packagemanifest). Put the _package.json_ at the top level of your FSH tank (the folder with your _.fsh_ files).
1. In your FSH Tank, create an _/ig-data_ subdirectory
1. In the _/ig-data_ directory, create a _/pagecontent_ subdirectory.
1. Create an index.md (markdown format) file containing the content for the home page of your IG, and put the file in the _/ig-data/pagecontent_ directory.

After completing these steps, re-run SUSHI. SUSHI will create and populate a _/build_ directory (or a directory name of your choice, with the `-o` flag) with all the files necessary to run the IG Publisher.

#### Downloading and Running the IG Publisher

At the command prompt, enter:

💻   `$ _updatePublisher`

🍎   `$ sh _updatePublisher.sh`

This will download the latest version of the HL7 FHIR IG Publisher tool. **This step can be skipped if you already have the latest version of the IG Publisher tool.**

> **Note:** If you are blocked by a firewall, or if for any reason __updatePublisher_ fails to execute, download the current IG Publisher jar file [here](https://fhir.github.io/latest-ig-publisher/org.hl7.fhir.publisher.jar). When the file has downloaded, move it into the directory _/build/input-cache_ (create this directory if necessary.)

Now run:

💻   `$ _genonce`

🍎   `$ sh _genonce.sh`


This will run the HL7 IG Publisher, which will take several minutes to complete. After the publisher is finished, open the file _/build/output/index.html_ to see the resulting IG.

#### Customizing your IG

🚧 The procedures here are a temporary workarounds, until SUSHI provides support for customizations.

Take the following steps to further customize your IG:

1. Make sure you have run SUSHI at least once and successfully produced the IG at least once, so you are sure the _/build_ directory exists, and contains the directories and files needed to run the IG Publisher. 
1. Make sure all the files in _/ig-data/pagecontent_ have been copied to _/build/input/pagecontent_. If not, manually copy them over.
1. Remove the _/ig-data_ directory from the FSH Tank (you may delete it, but it is safer to preserve it at another location.)
1. Introduce any desired customizations into the following files:
    * **Menus:** Edit _/build/input/include/menu.xml_
    * **List of pages and artifacts to be included in the IG:** Edit _/build/input/ImplementationGuide-{name}.json_. See [ImplementationGuide resource](https://www.hl7.org/fhir/implementationguide.html) for details.
    * **Additional pages, images, other content:** Add your files to _/build/input/pagecontent_ directory, and link them to menus or other pages.
    * **Version history:** Edit _/build/package-list.json_

When you run SUSHI again, specify that the output should go to the  _/build/input/resources_ directory:

`$ sushi . -o ./build/input/resources`

When SUSHI does not find the _/ig-data_ directory, it will only populate the _/build/input/resources_ directory, leaving your customizations intact.

> **Note:** After you introduce customizations, do **not** re-create the _/ig-data_ directory in the FSH tank, or SUSHI may overwrite the customizations you have introduced in _/build/input_.
